Integrating PyTorch in Alpaka heterogeneous core (#47984)
cms-sw/cmssw: PhysicsTools/PyTorchAlpaka/README.md

For two example SoAs Templates, which are stored in PortableCollections, columns can be added to `TensorRegistry`, by using the Metarecords implementation of SoAs.

- **Input SoA:**
```cpp
GENERATE_SOA_LAYOUT(SoATemplate,
    SOA_EIGEN_COLUMN(Eigen::Vector3d, a),
    SOA_EIGEN_COLUMN(Eigen::Vector3d, b),
    SOA_EIGEN_COLUMN(Eigen::Matrix2f, c),
    SOA_COLUMN(double, x),
    SOA_COLUMN(double, y),
    SOA_COLUMN(double, z),
    SOA_SCALAR(float, type),
    SOA_SCALAR(int, someNumber));
```
- **Output SoA:**
```cpp
GENERATE_SOA_LAYOUT(SoAOutputTemplate,
                    SOA_COLUMN(int, cluster));
```
- **Get Metarecords from Portable Collections:**
```cpp
PortableCollection<SoA, Device> deviceCollection(batch_size, queue);
PortableCollection<SoA_Result, Device> deviceResultCollection(batch_size, queue);
fill(queue, deviceCollection);
auto records = deviceCollection.view().records();
auto result_records = deviceResultCollection.view().records();
```
- **For each block** (one tensor), **add the columns** which should be merged to a single tensor. The datatypes have to be the same, and the columns have to be contiguous.

> IMPORTANT: continuity of memory is strick requirement!

Reviewer: What does this mean, exactly ?

All columns are padded to a given alignment (usually 128 bytes), so the tensors are almost never contiguous byte-wise.

Reviewer 2: One has to pass all columns to the `TensoryRegistry` that should be wrapped in the tensor and in the `SoALayout` the columns have to be defined after each other. So it is not possible to skip columns halfway through, but before and after. The alignment is taken care of, so it is really meant for the Layout. I adapted the text, I hope it is more clear now.

```
TensorRegistry input(batch_size);

> input.register_tenosr<SoA>("eigen_vector", records.a(), records.b());

Reviewer: I assume it should be 
```suggestion
input.register_tensor<SoA>("eigen_vector", records.a(), records.b());
```
?

input.register_tenosr<SoA>("eigen_matrix", records.c());
input.register_tenosr<SoA>("column", records.x(), records.y(), records.z());

> input.register_tenosr<SoA>("scalar", view.type());

Reviewer: why `view` ?

Reviewer 2: Changed it, this was a leftover from an old example code.

input.change_order({"column", "scalar", "eigen_matrix", "eigen_vector"});

TensorRegistry output(batch_size);
output.register_tenosr<SoA>("result", result_view.cluster());
```

> For Eigen columns, if only a single Vector/Matrix is provided for the tensor, is provided, as if each vector dimension is a column. This means size of tensor is (nElements, dimension) instead of (nElements, 1, dimension).

Reviewer: At least to me this is very much not clear :-(

After adding all the blocks to the `TensorRegistry`, the order of the blocks for inference can be adapted by calling `change_order()`. The order should match the expected input configuration of the PyTorch model.

More examples about usage can be found in [PyTorchAlpakaTest](../PyTorchAlpakaTest).

## Limitations
- Current implementation supports `SerialSync` and `CudaAsync` backends only. `ROCmAsync` backend is supported via SerialSync fallback mechanism due to missing `pytorch-hip` library in CMSSW (see: https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/blob/main/aten/CMakeLists.txt#L75), with explicit `alpaka::wait()` call to copy data to host and back to device.

> - Const correctness and thread-safety relies on `torch::from_blob()` mechanism which currently does not ensure that data will not be modified internally. There is ongoing work to support COW tensors but until this support will be integrated in mainstream PyTorch the provided solution materialize tensors if passed recipes points to `const` memory. For more information please check [Const correctness and thread-safety of torch::from_blob with external memory](https://discuss.pytorch.org/t/const-correctness-and-thread-safety-of-torch-from-blob-with-external-memory/223521) and [pytorch:#97856](https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/issues/97856)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Const correctness and thread-safety relies on `torch::from_blob()` mechanism which currently does not ensure that data will not be modified internally. There is ongoing work to support COW tensors but until this support will be integrated in mainstream PyTorch the provided solution materialises (copies) the tensors if passed recipes points to `const` memory. For more information please check [Const correctness and thread-safety of torch::from_blob with external memory](https://discuss.pytorch.org/t/const-correctness-and-thread-safety-of-torch-from-blob-with-external-memory/223521) and [pytorch:#97856](https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/issues/97856)
```

Reviewer: But I don't know what "recipes" means here.
